# Plunging in Tutorial Hell

Its been 6 months still we have locked up inside our houses due to Covid-19. These days caused more pain and loss for numerous people out there and some of them utilized this time for their best.

This was the time, LinkedIn took a whole new shift from being a Professional Networking platform to some kind of low-key Instagram or Facebook. Everyone including me was hyped to post the **certificates** we got from our courses in this platform. 

It was all good until I realized I was more into finishing courses rather than caring about the takeaways. Things made sense when I tried to work on my project, I learned skills from a course but it didn't help me to satisfy my needs on working on that project. I asked Why I can't do this?

The fault was on me for sure and I was so influenced by seeing people's out there on LinkedIn posting their **certificates**, gave me an idea people are so fast paced in learning new skills. I tried to fit myself into this infamous race of collecting certificates but never care about my learnings.

The idea is simple, doing more courses in a skillset never gets you better in that skill. The more courses you do gets you better in finishing courses. I have done 4 courses in Python, but still working on sites like Hackerrank, etc.

I was able to improve my skills. Those 4 courses all taught me the same shit, again, and again, I blamed courses that they can't deliver my needs but little do I know it was all on me. I was stuck inside the **tutorial hell**.

All I was doing is looking for courses that will teach me the whole of the skill and get me paid. I was wrong indeed and I was looping myself in different courses day-in and day-out.

I was unhappy with me, there was a thrust going inside me to fix this collapse. Then I came over the idea of [**Creation Vs Consumption](https://youtu.be/vKHJrTHB5rM)** from Daniel Bourke. From then I worked on fixing my cycle, lowering the consumption as much as I can and set the bars high for Creation.

## How I got out from Tutorial Hell

I stopped taking more courses rather than working on projects, If I got stuck a Google search for hours will deliver my needs.

In this way, I will able to learn things which I wanted to for the time being moreover chances are high we remember things for a long time when we work our ass off to find it or fix it.

I minimized my consumption or study materials, got into the world of experimenting things and reading blogs to know something when needed. Its a bit hard way of doing things but also a fun way of learning new things. 

Try to replicate what I had been taught in course at first. If thats a success, will try to put that work in my own style by adding new add-ons into it. 

Fixing the loop from, 

**Courses —> Interpret —> Courses** 

To,

**Materials —> Interpret —> Replicate —> Optimize —> Repeat** 

Shifting our energy is key, **what we do to what should we do**. Set up your balance stable the more you consume make sure you create equal amount of things. 

Have a great day!
